---
title: Day 3 - CSS
description: Started CSS
author: [Ritik Mehta]
date: 2024-06-12
categories: [MERN, Basics]
tags: [MERN, CSS, Tailwind, Bootstrap]
pin: false
math: true
mermaid: true
---

### Activities
- **Types of CSS**: 
  - **Inline CSS**: Adding CSS directly within HTML elements using the `style` attribute.
  - **Internal CSS**: Adding CSS within a `<style>` tag inside the `<head>` section of an HTML document.
  - **External CSS**: Linking an external CSS file to an HTML document using the `<link>` tag.

- **Basic CSS Properties**: 
  - **Color**: Changing text color using the `color` property.
  - **Background**: Changing the background color of an element using the `background-color` property.
  - **Font**: Modifying font properties like `font-family`, `font-size`, and `font-weight`.
  - **Margin and Padding**: Controlling the space outside and inside elements using `margin` and `padding` properties.
  - **Border**: Adding and styling borders using the `border` property.

### Notes
- **Types of CSS**:
  - **Inline CSS** is useful for quick, single-use styles but is not recommended for larger projects due to maintainability issues.
  - **Internal CSS** is suitable for single-page applications where styles are limited to that page.
  - **External CSS** is the most efficient way to manage styles for larger projects, promoting reusability and separation of concerns.

- **Basic Properties**:
   - Use **color** to enhance the readability and visual appeal of text.
  - **Background-color** can be used to highlight sections or elements on a page.
  - **Font** properties are crucial for maintaining typography consistency across the site.
  - Proper use of **margin** and **padding** helps in achieving a well-structured and spaced layout.
  - **Border** styles can be used to create distinct sections or emphasis around elements.
  - **Width and height** properties are essential for controlling the size of elements.
  - **Text-align** helps in aligning text within an element.
  - **Display** property determines how an element is displayed on the web page.

### Learnings

Some Basic CSS Properties
## CSS Properties

- **Color**
    selector {
    color: value;
    }

- **Background-color**

    selector {
    background-color: value;
    }
    
- **Font**
  
    selector {
    font-family: value;
    font-size: value;
    font-weight: value;
    }

- **Height and Width**

    selector {
    width: value;
    height: value;
    }

Replace selector with your CSS selector (e.g., .class, #id, element) and value with the appropriate CSS property value. This structure provides a quick reference for various CSS properties commonly used in web development.












